Solar Simulation App With L-System Tree Derivation
SLitrani-Solar-Simulator (SSS)

This application was developed by Michael Abbott (brickmen) for a URSS project funded by Energy GRP during the summer of 2013. Contact via email at either m.d.abbott@warwick.ac.uk or michael@abbottastro.com.

REQUIREMENTS:
1. Git, this is the easiest way to download this application to install just run 		something like: >sudo zypper install git 
    NOTE: If you are running on CSC, you already have git installed! Help is available at http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

2. A working ROOT installation, tested with production Version 5.3.4
    NOTE: Requires ALL prerequisites before compilation
    
3. A working installation of SLitrani
    NOTE: This isnt easy! 
    
    I've created a repo that contains what I believe to be a fixed version of SLitrani together with a guide to install in the readme
      Access it here: https://github.com/brickmen/slitrani-fixed
      
INSTALLATION:
Compared to the other two, this is easy! Just git clone this repository.

command: >git clone https://github.com/brickmen/slitrani-solar-simulator.git

Then you should see a new folder called "slitrani-solar-simulator", you're all set!


FILES & DETAILS:
Inside the SSS folder will be some files this is what they do:
1. SplineFitDB.rdb & SpectraDB.rdb
    Although these arent directly used by SSS, SLitrani likes to have these within the working directory so having then here enables you to run SSS within this directory.
    
2. ASTMG173.csv
    A SMARTS output file containing the spectra for an AM 1.5 spectra that is used by SSS to simulate the sun source, read more about it here: http://rredc.nrel.gov/solar/spectra/am1.5/
    
3. histparams.xml
    This is a configuation file used by SLitrani, it has been modified so that the whole solar spectrum is now within its range.
    
4. README
    You're reading this!
    
5. multipanel.C
    This is an old version of SSS that is handy to keep around as it does NOT have the L-System programming you can test non tree based shapes like flat panels and boxes, this code hasnt been tidied or commented well so refer to slitsolar.C if anything doesnt make sense.
    
6. slitsolar.C
    Saving the best till last! This is the main application that contains all the code to allow you to make L-Systems, build trees and then test them in SLitrani. This is where you'll be having the most fun, and headaches!
    
RUNNING SSS
You've got this far, congratulations!
To run SSS as I have left it is simple, just oad a terminal window in this directory and type the command: >root slitsolar.C

You'll see the splash screen and SLitrani will have been loaded. Your next step is to run the script, this can be done simply by typing: >Auto() and pressing return.

The next step may take  while depending on the number of derivations set and your computing power, eventually you'll see a screen pop up.

This screen has two windows: Left is a 3D graphic of your simulator and Right is a summary of the simulation.

Congratulations, you have now run your first SSS simulation!

WHAT NOW?
Well now is your time to play, open up slitsolar.C and look over it. I've tried to ensure comments are clear and you can work out what is happening at each stage. The parts that are easiest to edit first are at the beginning of the file.

Typing >Help() at the splash screen should guide you through how to run each function separately.

Take a read over The Algoryhmic Beauty of Plants: http://algorithmicbotany.org/papers/#abop
This'll give you some background to what L-Systems are and how to construct your own, Ive kept to the script used in this book as closely as possible in this application.

For some inspiration; the issues within this github repository shows some of the features I would have liked to implement into this application if I'd had more time. 

Good luck and I hope you find this application useful, you have my email if you have any queries.

AHHH ITS ALL BROKEN!
Not a problem, you can reload th original SSS by using git checkout or clone again but you'll lose all changes you've made!

GIT IS COOL CAN I USE IT?
Yes by all means, just fork this repo and you can start using git and github (excellent guide is available on github). Please let me know if you have done so as I'd love to see what you make.